In data integration and
processing pipelines,
data goes through a number of operations,
which can apply
a specific function to it, can work
the data from one format to another,
join data with other data sets, or
filter some values out of a data set.
We generally refer to these as
transformations, some of which can also
be specially named aggregations as you
have seen in Amarnath's earlier lectures.
In this video we will reveal some common
transformation operations that we see
in these pipelines, some of which,
we refer to as data parallel patterns.
After this video you will
be able to list common data
transformations within big data pipelines,
and design
a conceptual data processing pipeline
using the basic data transformations.
Simply speaking, transformations
are higher order functions or
tools to convert your data from
one form to another, just like
we would use tools at the wood shop
to transform logs into furniture.
When we look at big data
pipelines used today,
map is probably the most
common transformation we find.
The map operation is one of the basic
building blocks of the big data pipeline.
When you want to apply a process
to each member of a collection,
such as adding 10% bonus to each
person's salary on a given month a map
operation comes in very handy.
It takes your process and
understand that it is required to perform
the same operation or
process to each member of the set.
The figure on the left
here shows the application
of a map function to data
depicted in grey color.
Here colors red, blue, and
yellow are keys to identify each data set.
As you see, each data set is executed
separately even for the same colored key.
The reduce operation helps you then
to collectively apply the same
process to objects of similar nature.
For example, when you want to add your
monthly spending in different categories,
like grocery, fuel, and dining out,
the reduce operation is very useful.
In our figure here on the top left,
we see that data sets in
grey with the same color
are keys grouped together
using a reduced function.
Reds together, blues together,
and yellows together.
It would be a good idea to check out
the Spark word count hands-on to see
how map and reduce can be used
effectively for getting things done.
Map and reduce are types of
transformations that work on a single
list of key and data pairings just
like we see on the left of our figure.
Now let's consider a scenario where
we have two data sets identified
by the same keys just like the two
sets and colors in our diagram.
Many operations have such needs where
we have to look at all the pairings of
all key value pairs,
just like crossing two matrices.
For a practical example
Imagine you have two teams,
a sales team with two people, and
an operations team with four people.
In an event you would want each
person to meet every other person.
In this case, a cross product, or
a cartesian product, becomes a good
choice for organizing the event and
sharing each pairs' meeting location and
travel time to them.
In a cross or cartesian product operation,
each data partition gets
paired with all other data partitions,
regardless of its key.
This sometimes gets
referred to as all pairs.
Now add to the cross product by
just grouping together the data
partitions with the same key,
just like the red data.
And the yellow data partitions here.
This is a typical match or join operation.
As we see in the figure here, match
is very similar to the cross product,
except that it is more
selective in forming pairs.
Every pair must have something in common.
This something in common is
usually referred to as a key.
For example,
each person in your operations team and
sales team is assigned
to a different product.
You only want those people to meet
who are working on the same product.
In this case your key is product.
And you can perform and
match operation and
send e-mails to those people
who share a common product.
The number of e-mails is likely to be less
than when you performed a cartesian or
a cross product, therefore reducing
the cost of the operation.
In a match operation, only the keys
with data in both sets get joined,
and become a part of the final
output of the transformation.
Now let's consider listing
the data sets with all the keys,
even if they don't exist in both sets.
Consider a scenario where you
want to do brainstorming sessions
of people from operations and sales, and
get people who work on the same
products in the same rooms.
A co-group operation will do this for you.
You give it a product name
as they key to work with and
the two tables, the sales team and
operations team.
The co-group will create groups
which contain team members
working on common products even if a
product doesn't exist in one of the sets.
The last operation we will
see is the filter operation.
Filter works much like a test
where only elements that pass
a test are shown in the output.
Consider as a set that contains teams and
a number of members in their teams.
If your game requires people to pair up,
you may want to select teams which
have an even number of members.
In this case, you can create a test
that only passes the teams which have
an even number of team members shown as
divided by 2 with 0 in the remainder.
The real effectiveness of the basic
transformation we saw here
is in pipelining them in a way that
helps you to solve your specific
problem just as you would perform
a series of tasks on a real block
of wood to make a fine piece of
woodwork that you can use to steer your
ship, which in this case is
your business or research.